doc/api/ubf/Bvstof.adoc, before:

BVSTOF(3)
=========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
Bvstof - Transfer data from View (C structure) to UBF buffer


SYNOPSIS
--------

#include <ubf.h>

int Bvstof(UBFH *'p_ub', char *'cstruct', int 'mode', char *'view');

Link with '-lubf -lnstd -lm -lpthread'

DESCRIPTION
-----------
Function is used to transfer data from view C structure ('cstruct') to UBF buffer
('p_ub'). The view type is passed into 'view' variable which must correspond to
the actual C structure behind 'cstruct' pointer. The 'mode' flag indicates the
data merge mode into UBF buffer (because UBF may already contain some fields).

For 'mode' have defined following constants:

. BUPDATE - Uses *Bupdate(3)* mechanism to merge the data into 'p_ub'. In this mode
if field in C structure corresponds to NULL value defined in view, then data is
not transfered to UBF.

. BOJOIN - Uses Bojoin() mechanism to merge data into 'p_ub'. Bojoin() is not yet
supported, thus it is reserved for future use. And this mode will not change
the target UBF buffer.

. BJOIN - Uses Bjoin() function to merge structure data to UBF buffer. Bjoin() is
not yet implemented, thus this mode will not add/change any data in target UBF
buffer.

. BCONCAT - Uses *Bconcat(3)* function to merge data into target UBF. In this
mode even if field corresponds to NULL value in view, the NULL value is copied
to target UBF.

The mode functions are supported thanks to approach that firstly structure data
is loaded into temporary UBF buffer, and then this temp buffer is merged with
target 'p_ub' buffer.

If *C* (count indicator) was set for the field, then during data transfer this
number of elements are copied to UBF. If *C* flag was not used, then all elements
are staged to copy. If *L* flag was set, then for *carray* buffers this will
indelicate number of bytes to copy to UBF field. 


RETURN VALUE
------------
On success, *Bvftos()* return zero; on error, -1 is returned, with *Berror* set to 
indicate the error.

ERRORS
------
Note that *Bstrerror()* returns generic error message plus custom message with 
debug info from last function call.

*BALIGNERR* Corrupted buffer or pointing to not aligned memory area.

*BNOTFLD* Buffer not fielded, not correctly allocated or corrupted.

*BBADFLD* Invalid field id passed.

*BBADVIEW* View is not found, object file is defective or system error.

*BVFSYNTAX* Defective object file, cannot load.

*BMALLOC* Malloc failed, out of memory.

*BNOSPACE* Not enough space in target buffer (pointed by 'p_ub').

EXAMPLE
-------
See *atmitest/test040_typedview/viewunit1.c* for sample code.

BUGS
----
Report bugs to support@mavimax.com

SEE ALSO
--------
*viewc(8)*, *Bvstof(3)*, *Bvsinit(3)*, *Bvselinit(3)*, *Bvnull(3)*, *Bvopt(3)*, *ex_env(5)*,
*Bupdate(3)*, *Bconcat(3)*

COPYING
-------
(C) Mavimax, Ltd

Commit message:

Works on doc for view

doc/api/ubf/Bvstof.adoc, after:

BVSTOF(3)
=========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
Bvstof - Transfer data from View (C structure) to UBF buffer


SYNOPSIS
--------

#include <ubf.h>

int Bvstof(UBFH *'p_ub', char *'cstruct', int 'mode', char *'view');

Link with '-lubf -lnstd -lm -lpthread'

DESCRIPTION
-----------
Function is used to transfer data from view C structure ('cstruct') to UBF buffer
('p_ub'). The view type is passed into 'view' variable which must correspond to
the actual C structure behind 'cstruct' pointer. The 'mode' flag indicates the
data merge mode into UBF buffer (because UBF may already contain some fields).

For 'mode' have defined following constants:

. BUPDATE - Uses *Bupdate(3)* mechanism to merge the data into 'p_ub'. In this mode
if field in C structure corresponds to NULL value defined in view, then data is
not transfered to UBF.

. BOJOIN - Uses Bojoin() mechanism to merge data into 'p_ub'. Bojoin() is not yet
supported, thus it is reserved for future use. And this mode will not change
the target UBF buffer.

. BJOIN - Uses Bjoin() function to merge structure data to UBF buffer. Bjoin() is
not yet implemented, thus this mode will not add/change any data in target UBF
buffer.

. BCONCAT - Uses *Bconcat(3)* function to merge data into target UBF. In this
mode even if field corresponds to NULL value in view, the NULL value is copied
to target UBF.

The mode functions are supported thanks to approach that firstly structure data
is loaded into temporary UBF buffer, and then this temp buffer is merged with
target 'p_ub' buffer.

If *C* (count indicator) was set for the field, then during data transfer this
number of elements are copied to UBF. If *C* flag was not used, then all elements
are staged to copy. If count field is greater than count defined in VIEW, the operation
will be terminated with error *TPEINVAL*

If *L* flag was set, then for *carray* buffers this will
indicate number of bytes to copy to UBF field. 


RETURN VALUE
------------
On success, *Bvftos()* return zero; on error, -1 is returned, with *Berror* set to 
indicate the error.

ERRORS
------
Note that *Bstrerror()* returns generic error message plus custom message with 
debug info from last function call.

*BALIGNERR* Corrupted buffer or pointing to not aligned memory area.

*BEINVAL* Invalid value passed to function. Count indicator is greater than count
specified in view or length indicator is greater than size specified for field in
view.

*BNOTFLD* Buffer not fielded, not correctly allocated or corrupted.

*BBADFLD* Invalid field id passed.

*BBADVIEW* View is not found, object file is defective or system error.

*BVFSYNTAX* Defective object file, cannot load.

*BMALLOC* Malloc failed, out of memory.

*BNOSPACE* Not enough space in target buffer (pointed by 'p_ub').

EXAMPLE
-------
See *atmitest/test040_typedview/viewunit1.c* for sample code.

BUGS
----
Report bugs to support@mavimax.com

SEE ALSO
--------
*viewc(8)*, *Bvstof(3)*, *Bvsinit(3)*, *Bvselinit(3)*, *Bvnull(3)*, *Bvopt(3)*, *ex_env(5)*,
*Bupdate(3)*, *Bconcat(3)*

COPYING
-------
(C) Mavimax, Ltd
