doc/manpage/ex_env.adoc, before:

EX_ENV(5)
========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
ex_env - EnduroX Environment configuration

DESCRIPTION
-----------
EnduroX use set of environment variables which is initial environment
for application domain. There is set of parameters related to system,
prefixes, Posix Queue mount points, various system limits. Next step
to the configuration is appdomain config it self, in 'ndrxconfig.xml'
and 'debug.conf'.

Mandatory Env. Variables
------------------------
*NDRX_NODEID*='NODE_ID'::
	Cluster Node ID. Should be within 1..32.
*NDRX_CLUSTERISED*='1|0'::
	Do we work in cluster mode or not? '1' - yes, we are in cluster. 
	'0' - no, we are not in cluster.
*NDRX_LDBAL*='LOAD_BALANCE_PERCENT'::
	if LOAD_BALANCE_PERCENT is 0 = means process all locally, 
	if value is set to 100 = process all on remote servers (if svc
	available on remote server). 70% means, process 30% locally
	70% remotely.
*NDRX_TOUT*='TIME_OUT_IN_SECONDS'::
	Global tpcall() timeout, if not called with TPNOTIME flag.
	If process will not return in this time, then TPETIME error
	will be returned.
*NDRX_ULOG*='ULOG_PATH'::
	Writtable system path where to write user logs.
*NDRX_QPREFIX*='APP_PREFIX'::
	Prefix used for POSIX IPC resources (shm and queue).
*NDRX_SVCMAX*='MAX_SERVICES'::
	This determines the maximum number of services supported by instance.
	The less is number, then less shared memory is used. However for
	performance reason, number should be much bigger (3-4 times) than
	actual estimated service count. Biggern number might speed up linear
	hashing, i.e. it will be less likely that hash will collide.
*NDRX_SRVMAX*='MAX_SERVERS'::
	Maximum number of servers that will be supported. This affects the
	'-i' flag. Server ID. The max server id will be MAX_SERVERS-1.
*NDRX_CONFIG*='FULL_PATH_TO_CONFIG_FILE'::
	This shows the full path to useual ndrxconfig.xml.
*NDRX_QPATH*='QUEUE_MOUNT_POINT'::
	Full path to directory where POSIX Queue is mounted.
*NDRX_SHMPATH*='SHARED_MEM_MOUNT_POINT'::
	Full path to POSIX Shared memory mount point.
*NDRX_CMDWAIT*='NDRXD_COMMAND_WAIT_SECS'::
	Number of second to wait for commands, after which 'ndrxd' does other checks.
*NDRX_DPID*='PATH_TO_NDRXD_PID_FILE'::
	This is full path to 'ndrxd' PID file.
*NDRX_RNDK*='APP_DOMAIN_RANDOM_KEY'::
	Random key to indentify the processes beloning to
	this app domain (i.e. used in ps ef).
*NDRX_IPCKEY*='SYS_V_SEMAPHORE_KEY'::
	System V Semaphores key number. Used for shared memory locking.
	POSIX semaphores are not used here, because they are not unlocked if process
	dies during acquired semaphore.
*NDRX_MSGMAX*='MAX_MSGS_PER_QUEUE'::
	Posix queue config attrib. Max number of messages that can be put in one queue.
*NDRX_DQMAX*='NDRXD_ACCESS_Q_MSG_MAX'::
	EnduroX ATMI daemoni 'ndrxd' access Q size. Bigger is better.
*NDRX_MSGSIZEMAX*='NDRXD_ACCESS_Q_MSG_MAX'::
	Max message size (in bytes).
*NDRX_APPHOME*='FULL_PATH_TO_APPDOMAIN_INSTANCE_DIR'::
	This is full path to application (not an EnduroX directory it self) root directory.
*NDRX_HOME*='FULL_PATH_TO_ENDUROX_ROOT_DIRECTORY'::
	Full path to EnduroX installaction directory.
*NDRX_DEBUG_CONF*='FULL_PATH_TO_DEBUG_CONFIG_FILE'::
	This sets full path to debug configuration file.
*NDRX_UBFMAXFLDS*='MAX_NUMBER_OF_UBFFIELDS'::
	Max number of UBF fields. Used for hashing. Bigger number is better. The max number
	is number is 33554432 (25 bit).
*NDRX_DMNLOG*='FULL_PATH_TO_NDRX_DMNLOG'::
	The full path to 'ndrxd' log file. Used by shell scripts.
*NDRX_DMNLEV*='LOG_LEVEL_OF_NDRXD'::
	Log level of 'ndrxd'. From 1..5. 5 is max. Used by shell scripts.
*NDRX_LOG*='FULL_PATH_TO_XADMIN_LOG_FILE'::
	Full path to 'xadmin' log file. Used by shell scripts.
*NDRX_LEV*='LOG_LEVEL_OF_XADMIN'::
	Log level of 'xadmin'. From 1..5. 5 is max. Used by shell scripts.
*NDRX_XA_RES_ID*='XA_RESOURCE_ID'::
	XA API two phase commit resource id.
        Must be set if using distributed transactions.
*NDRX_XA_OPEN_STR*='XA_OPEN_STRING'::
	This is open string for two phase commit XA driver.
        Must be set if using distributed transactions.
*NDRX_XA_CLOSE_STR*='XA_CLOSE_STRING'::
	This is close string for two phase commit XA driver. This is optional, 'NDRX_XA_OPEN_STR' will be used
        if not set.
*NDRX_XA_DRIVERLIB*='ENDUROX_XA_DRIVER_LIB'::
	This is full path to Enduro/X shared library which loads the XA api.
*NDRX_XA_RMLIB*='RESOURCE_MANAGER_SPECIFIC_DRIVER'::
	This is full path to resource manager's specific driver (shared library).
        Must be set if using distributed transactions.
*NDRX_XA_LAZY_INIT*='LAZY_INIT_FLAG'::
	Set to '1' if XA sub-system should be initialized on first transactions. 
        If not set, then defaulted to '0', meaning initialize XA sub-system on executable startup.
*NDRX_XA_FLAGS*='XADMIN_XA_FLAGS'::
	Special for XA sub-system. It is semicolon separated tags with values.
	currently tag 'RECON' is defined.
	'RECON' tag defines the number of attempts
	of xa_close()/xa_open() and doing xa_start() again in case if original
	xa_start() failed (the ATMI call tpbegin()) - for example firewall have been 
	closed the connection. The format for the tag is:
	'RECON:<comma separated list of error codes e.g. 4,-8,* - any err>:<number of attempts>:<sleep between attempts milli-sec>'
	example: 'RECON:*:3:100', meaning reconnect on any xa_start error, do the
	3x attempts, sleep 100 milliseconds between attempts.
*NDRX_NRSEMS*='NDRX_NRSEMS'::
	Number of semaphores used for protecting shared memory, when Enduro/X running in 'poll()' mode.
	The minimum is recommended something about 7. Every service name in shared memory is hashed 
	and semaphore protecting the service is calculated by modulus of NRSEMS. This affects 
    'NDRX_IPCKEY' semaphore, by giving the more occurrences in array. The first array entry is used
    by normal Enduro/X operations, and the others 2..1+NRSEMS is used by 'poll()' mode service
    protection. Default value is 30.
*NDRX_MAXSVCSRVS*='NDRX_MAXSVCSRVS'::
    Max number of servers can advertise same service. This is used only in 'poll()' mode.
	The number affects the size of shared memory used for services. Bigger number causes
	more memory to be used for service registry. If the number of servers goes over this number
	for one service, the service entry will be ignored.
*PATH='PATH'*::
	This is not Enduro/X specific env variable. But Enduro/X distribution bin 
	directory should be included in system PATH env. variable.
*FLDTBLDIR*='FULL_OR_RELATIVE_PATH_OF_UBF_FIELD_DIRS'::
	This is directory where .fd files are located. I.e. UBF field definitions.
*FIELDTBLS*='COMMA_SEPERATED_LIST_OF_FIELD_FILES'::
	This is comma separated list of field files found in FLDTBLDIR.
*NDRX_CCONFIG*='NDRX_COMMON_CONFIG_FILE'::
    If this is set then, all above configuration is read from specified ini
    file in 'NDRX_COMMON_CONFIG_FILE' in [@global] section. The Enduro/X config
    driving unit is able to merge configuration from multiple config files,
    and you can set higher priority files by in 'NDRX_CCONFIG1', 'NDRX_CCONFIG2'
    'NDRX_CCONFIG3', 'NDRX_CCONFIG4', 'NDRX_CCONFIG5'. Basically 'NDRX_CCONFIG'
    is lowest priority and 'NDRX_CCONFIG5' is highest priority. The specified
    configuration file can be directory, in that case Enduro/X will search for
    files with mask *.ini, *.cfg, *.conf, *.config files. All will be loaded
    in alphabetical order.
*NDRX_CCTAG*='NDRX_COMMON_CONFIG_TAG'::
    This is basically subsection used for Enduro/X configuration sections
    [@global], [@debug], [@queue]. If the variable is set, then Enduro/X will
    lookup at process startup for sections like [@global/YOUR_TAG], etc. CC tag
    can contain multiple sections, for example 'server1/RM2'. Enduro/X will lookup
    the variables in each section [@global/server1] and [@global/RM2] for setting
    up the system.
*NDRX_XADMIN_CONFIG*='XADMIN_CONFIG_FILE'::
    This variable is used by *xadmin* read the specific configuration file with
    xadmin's settings. Variable is optional.
*HOME*='UNIX_USER_HOME_DIR'::
    This variable is used by *xadmin* to search for per user configuration file
    when xadmin is started. In home directory search for configuration is done
    by $HOME/.xadmin.config. This file is used in case if 'NDRX_XADMIN_CONFIG'
    is missing. Variable is optional.
*VIEWDIR*='NDRX_VIEW_DIR'::
    This is colon separated list of directories where to search VIEW compiled
    object files. The access to these directories are done only once operations
    with views are performed.
*VIEWFILES*='NDRX_VIEW_FILES'::
    Comma separated list of VIEW object files (typically with extension .V).
    Object files are produced by view compiler *viewc(8)*.

EXAMPLE
-------
Sample configuration:
---------------------------------------------------------------------
export FIELDTBLS=Exfields,fieldtab1.fd,fieldtab2.fd
export FLDTBLDIR=/enduro/tst1/tuxfbuf
export VIEWDIR=/enduro/tst1/views
export VIEWFILES=customer.V,card.V
export NDRX_DMNLEV=5
export NDRX_DMNLOG=/enduro/tst1/tmp/NDRXD
export NDRX_APPHOME=/enduro/tst1
export NDRX_CLUSTERISED=0
export NDRX_CMDWAIT=1
export NDRX_CONFIG=/enduro/tst1/conf/ndrxconfig.xml
export NDRX_DEBUG_CONF=/enduro/tst1/conf/ndrxdebug.conf
export NDRX_DPID=/enduro/tst1/tmp/ndrxd.pid
export NDRX_DQMAX=3000
export NDRX_HOME=/opt/endurox
export NDRX_IPCKEY=442000
export NDRX_LDBAL=0
export NDRX_LEV=5
export NDRX_LOG=/enduro/tst1/tmp/XADMIN
export NDRX_MSGMAX=100
export NDRX_MSGSIZEMAX=32000
export NDRX_NODEID=1
export NDRX_QPATH=/dev/mqueue
export NDRX_QPREFIX=/tst1
export NDRX_RNDK=jaUZwOlTqglSc
export NDRX_SHMPATH=/dev/shm
export NDRX_SRVMAX=10000
export NDRX_SVCMAX=600
export NDRX_TOUT=60
export NDRX_UBFMAXFLDS=16000
export NDRX_ULOG=/enduro/tst1/logs

# XA 2PC SECTION, ORACLE DB
export ORACLE_SID=ROCKY
export ORACLE_HOME=/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/dbhome_1
export PATH=$PATH:ORACLE_HOME/bin
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:$ORACLE_HOME/lib
export NDRX_XA_RES_ID=1
export NDRX_XA_OPEN_STR="ORACLE_XA+SqlNet=ROCKY+ACC=P/endurotest/endurotest1+SesTM=180+LogDir=/tmp/xa+nolocal=f"
export NDRX_XA_CLOSE_STR=$NDRX_XA_OPEN_STR

# XA Static registration driver
export NDRX_XA_DRIVERLIB=$NDRX_HOME/lib/libndrxxaoras.so

# XA Dynamic registration driver
#export NDRX_XA_DRIVERLIB=$NDRX_HOME/lib/libndrxxaorad.so

export NDRX_XA_RMLIB=/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/dbhome_1/lib/libclntsh.so.11.1
export NDRX_XA_LAZY_INIT=1
# XA SECTION, END

---------------------------------------------------------------------

Common-config ini file sample configuration, assuming following settings in env:
---------------------------------------------------------------------
export NDRX_CCONFIG=/enduro/tst1/conf/app.ini
export NDRX_CCTAG=server1/RM2
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The configuration file might look like:

---------------------------------------------------------------------
#
# Common variables, inherited for CCTAGs
#
[@global]
FIELDTBLS=Exfields,fieldtab1.fd,fieldtab2.fd
FLDTBLDIR=/enduro/tst1/tuxfbuf
VIEWDIR=/enduro/tst1/views
VIEWFILES=customer.V,card.V
NDRX_DMNLEV=5
NDRX_DMNLOG=/enduro/tst1/tmp/NDRXD
NDRX_APPHOME=/enduro/tst1
NDRX_CLUSTERISED=0
NDRX_CMDWAIT=1
NDRX_DPID=/enduro/tst1/tmp/ndrxd.pid
NDRX_DQMAX=3000
NDRX_HOME=/opt/endurox
NDRX_IPCKEY=442000
NDRX_LDBAL=0
NDRX_LEV=5
NDRX_LOG=/enduro/tst1/tmp/XADMIN
NDRX_MSGMAX=100
NDRX_MSGSIZEMAX=32000
NDRX_NODEID=1
NDRX_QPATH=/dev/mqueue
NDRX_QPREFIX=/tst1
NDRX_RNDK=jaUZwOlTqglSc
NDRX_SHMPATH=/dev/shm
NDRX_SRVMAX=10000
NDRX_SVCMAX=600
NDRX_TOUT=60
NDRX_UBFMAXFLDS=16000
NDRX_ULOG=/enduro/tst1/logs

#
# CCTAG section server1
#
[@global/server1]
NDRX_CONFIG=/enduro/tst1/conf/ndrxconfig.xml

#
# CCTAG section RM2
#
[@global/RM2]
# XA 2PC SECTION, ORACLE DB
ORACLE_SID=ROCKY
ORACLE_HOME=/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/dbhome_1
PATH=$PATH:ORACLE_HOME/bin
LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:$ORACLE_HOME/lib
NDRX_XA_RES_ID=1
NDRX_XA_OPEN_STR="ORACLE_XA+SqlNet=ROCKY+ACC=P/endurotest/endurotest1+SesTM=180+LogDir=/tmp/xa+nolocal=f"
NDRX_XA_CLOSE_STR=$NDRX_XA_OPEN_STR
# XA Static registration driver
NDRX_XA_DRIVERLIB=$NDRX_HOME/lib/libndrxxaoras.so
# XA Dynamic registration driver
#NDRX_XA_DRIVERLIB=$NDRX_HOME/lib/libndrxxaorad.so
NDRX_XA_RMLIB=/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/dbhome_1/lib/libclntsh.so.11.1
NDRX_XA_LAZY_INIT=1
# XA SECTION, END

#
# Debug section (no need for NDRX_DEBUG_CONF in CConfig case)
#
[@debug]
*= ndrx=0 ubf=0

[@debug/server1]
*= ndrx=5 ubf=0

---------------------------------------------------------------------

BUGS
----
Report bugs to support@mavimax.com

SEE ALSO
--------
*xadmin(8)*, *ndrxd(8)*, *ndrxconfig.xml(5)*, *ndrxdebug.conf(5)* *viewc(8)*

AUTHOR
------
Enduro/X is created by Madars Vitolins.


COPYING
-------
(C) Mavimax, Ltd.

Commit message:

Feature #161 - automatic transaction manager (tmsrv) reconnects to database and system monitoring with pings

doc/manpage/ex_env.adoc, after:

EX_ENV(5)
========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
ex_env - EnduroX Environment configuration

DESCRIPTION
-----------
EnduroX use set of environment variables which is initial environment
for application domain. There is set of parameters related to system,
prefixes, Posix Queue mount points, various system limits. Next step
to the configuration is appdomain config it self, in 'ndrxconfig.xml'
and 'debug.conf'.

Mandatory Env. Variables
------------------------
*NDRX_NODEID*='NODE_ID'::
	Cluster Node ID. Should be within 1..32.
*NDRX_CLUSTERISED*='1|0'::
	Do we work in cluster mode or not? '1' - yes, we are in cluster. 
	'0' - no, we are not in cluster.
*NDRX_LDBAL*='LOAD_BALANCE_PERCENT'::
	if LOAD_BALANCE_PERCENT is 0 = means process all locally, 
	if value is set to 100 = process all on remote servers (if svc
	available on remote server). 70% means, process 30% locally
	70% remotely.
*NDRX_TOUT*='TIME_OUT_IN_SECONDS'::
	Global tpcall() timeout, if not called with TPNOTIME flag.
	If process will not return in this time, then TPETIME error
	will be returned.
*NDRX_ULOG*='ULOG_PATH'::
	Writtable system path where to write user logs.
*NDRX_QPREFIX*='APP_PREFIX'::
	Prefix used for POSIX IPC resources (shm and queue).
*NDRX_SVCMAX*='MAX_SERVICES'::
	This determines the maximum number of services supported by instance.
	The less is number, then less shared memory is used. However for
	performance reason, number should be much bigger (3-4 times) than
	actual estimated service count. Biggern number might speed up linear
	hashing, i.e. it will be less likely that hash will collide.
*NDRX_SRVMAX*='MAX_SERVERS'::
	Maximum number of servers that will be supported. This affects the
	'-i' flag. Server ID. The max server id will be MAX_SERVERS-1.
*NDRX_CONFIG*='FULL_PATH_TO_CONFIG_FILE'::
	This shows the full path to useual ndrxconfig.xml.
*NDRX_QPATH*='QUEUE_MOUNT_POINT'::
	Full path to directory where POSIX Queue is mounted.
*NDRX_SHMPATH*='SHARED_MEM_MOUNT_POINT'::
	Full path to POSIX Shared memory mount point.
*NDRX_CMDWAIT*='NDRXD_COMMAND_WAIT_SECS'::
	Number of second to wait for commands, after which 'ndrxd' does other checks.
*NDRX_DPID*='PATH_TO_NDRXD_PID_FILE'::
	This is full path to 'ndrxd' PID file.
*NDRX_RNDK*='APP_DOMAIN_RANDOM_KEY'::
	Random key to indentify the processes beloning to
	this app domain (i.e. used in ps ef).
*NDRX_IPCKEY*='SYS_V_SEMAPHORE_KEY'::
	System V Semaphores key number. Used for shared memory locking.
	POSIX semaphores are not used here, because they are not unlocked if process
	dies during acquired semaphore.
*NDRX_MSGMAX*='MAX_MSGS_PER_QUEUE'::
	Posix queue config attrib. Max number of messages that can be put in one queue.
*NDRX_DQMAX*='NDRXD_ACCESS_Q_MSG_MAX'::
	EnduroX ATMI daemoni 'ndrxd' access Q size. Bigger is better.
*NDRX_MSGSIZEMAX*='NDRXD_ACCESS_Q_MSG_MAX'::
	Max message size (in bytes).
*NDRX_APPHOME*='FULL_PATH_TO_APPDOMAIN_INSTANCE_DIR'::
	This is full path to application (not an EnduroX directory it self) root directory.
*NDRX_HOME*='FULL_PATH_TO_ENDUROX_ROOT_DIRECTORY'::
	Full path to EnduroX installaction directory.
*NDRX_DEBUG_CONF*='FULL_PATH_TO_DEBUG_CONFIG_FILE'::
	This sets full path to debug configuration file.
*NDRX_UBFMAXFLDS*='MAX_NUMBER_OF_UBFFIELDS'::
	Max number of UBF fields. Used for hashing. Bigger number is better. The max number
	is number is 33554432 (25 bit).
*NDRX_DMNLOG*='FULL_PATH_TO_NDRX_DMNLOG'::
	The full path to 'ndrxd' log file. Used by shell scripts.
*NDRX_DMNLEV*='LOG_LEVEL_OF_NDRXD'::
	Log level of 'ndrxd'. From 1..5. 5 is max. Used by shell scripts.
*NDRX_LOG*='FULL_PATH_TO_XADMIN_LOG_FILE'::
	Full path to 'xadmin' log file. Used by shell scripts.
*NDRX_LEV*='LOG_LEVEL_OF_XADMIN'::
	Log level of 'xadmin'. From 1..5. 5 is max. Used by shell scripts.
*NDRX_XA_RES_ID*='XA_RESOURCE_ID'::
	XA API two phase commit resource id.
        Must be set if using distributed transactions.
*NDRX_XA_OPEN_STR*='XA_OPEN_STRING'::
	This is open string for two phase commit XA driver.
        Must be set if using distributed transactions.
*NDRX_XA_CLOSE_STR*='XA_CLOSE_STRING'::
	This is close string for two phase commit XA driver. This is optional, 
        'NDRX_XA_OPEN_STR' will be used if not set.
*NDRX_XA_DRIVERLIB*='ENDUROX_XA_DRIVER_LIB'::
	This is full path to Enduro/X shared library which loads the XA api.
*NDRX_XA_RMLIB*='RESOURCE_MANAGER_SPECIFIC_DRIVER'::
	This is full path to resource manager's specific driver (shared library).
        Must be set if using distributed transactions.
*NDRX_XA_LAZY_INIT*='LAZY_INIT_FLAG'::
	Set to '1' if XA sub-system should be initialized on first transactions. 
        If not set, then defaulted to '0', meaning initialize XA sub-system on executable startup.
*NDRX_XA_FLAGS*='XADMIN_XA_FLAGS'::
	Special for XA sub-system. It is semicolon separated tags with values.
	currently tag 'RECON' is defined.
	'RECON' tag defines the number of attempts
	of xa_close()/xa_open() and doing xa_start() again in case if original
	xa_start() failed (the ATMI call tpbegin()) - for example firewall have been 
	closed the connection. The format for the tag is:
	'RECON:<comma separated list of error codes e.g. 4,-8,* - any err>:<number 
        of attempts>:<sleep between attempts milli-sec>'
	example: 'RECON:*:3:100', meaning reconnect on any xa_start error, do the
	3x attempts, sleep 100 milliseconds between attempts.
*NDRX_NRSEMS*='NDRX_NRSEMS'::
	Number of semaphores used for protecting shared memory, when Enduro/X running in 'poll()' mode.
	The minimum is recommended something about 7. Every service name in shared memory is hashed 
	and semaphore protecting the service is calculated by modulus of NRSEMS. This affects 
    'NDRX_IPCKEY' semaphore, by giving the more occurrences in array. The first array entry is used
    by normal Enduro/X operations, and the others 2..1+NRSEMS is used by 'poll()' mode service
    protection. Default value is 30.
*NDRX_MAXSVCSRVS*='NDRX_MAXSVCSRVS'::
    Max number of servers can advertise same service. This is used only in 'poll()' mode.
	The number affects the size of shared memory used for services. Bigger number causes
	more memory to be used for service registry. If the number of servers goes over this number
	for one service, the service entry will be ignored.
*PATH='PATH'*::
	This is not Enduro/X specific env variable. But Enduro/X distribution bin 
	directory should be included in system PATH env. variable.
*FLDTBLDIR*='FULL_OR_RELATIVE_PATH_OF_UBF_FIELD_DIRS'::
	This is directory where .fd files are located. I.e. UBF field definitions.
*FIELDTBLS*='COMMA_SEPERATED_LIST_OF_FIELD_FILES'::
	This is comma separated list of field files found in FLDTBLDIR.
*NDRX_CCONFIG*='NDRX_COMMON_CONFIG_FILE'::
    If this is set then, all above configuration is read from specified ini
    file in 'NDRX_COMMON_CONFIG_FILE' in [@global] section. The Enduro/X config
    driving unit is able to merge configuration from multiple config files,
    and you can set higher priority files by in 'NDRX_CCONFIG1', 'NDRX_CCONFIG2'
    'NDRX_CCONFIG3', 'NDRX_CCONFIG4', 'NDRX_CCONFIG5'. Basically 'NDRX_CCONFIG'
    is lowest priority and 'NDRX_CCONFIG5' is highest priority. The specified
    configuration file can be directory, in that case Enduro/X will search for
    files with mask *.ini, *.cfg, *.conf, *.config files. All will be loaded
    in alphabetical order.
*NDRX_CCTAG*='NDRX_COMMON_CONFIG_TAG'::
    This is basically subsection used for Enduro/X configuration sections
    [@global], [@debug], [@queue]. If the variable is set, then Enduro/X will
    lookup at process startup for sections like [@global/YOUR_TAG], etc. CC tag
    can contain multiple sections, for example 'server1/RM2'. Enduro/X will lookup
    the variables in each section [@global/server1] and [@global/RM2] for setting
    up the system.
*NDRX_XADMIN_CONFIG*='XADMIN_CONFIG_FILE'::
    This variable is used by *xadmin* read the specific configuration file with
    xadmin's settings. Variable is optional.
*HOME*='UNIX_USER_HOME_DIR'::
    This variable is used by *xadmin* to search for per user configuration file
    when xadmin is started. In home directory search for configuration is done
    by $HOME/.xadmin.config. This file is used in case if 'NDRX_XADMIN_CONFIG'
    is missing. Variable is optional.
*VIEWDIR*='NDRX_VIEW_DIR'::
    This is colon separated list of directories where to search VIEW compiled
    object files. The access to these directories are done only once operations
    with views are performed.
*VIEWFILES*='NDRX_VIEW_FILES'::
    Comma separated list of VIEW object files (typically with extension .V).
    Object files are produced by view compiler *viewc(8)*.

EXAMPLE
-------
Sample configuration:
---------------------------------------------------------------------
export FIELDTBLS=Exfields,fieldtab1.fd,fieldtab2.fd
export FLDTBLDIR=/enduro/tst1/tuxfbuf
export VIEWDIR=/enduro/tst1/views
export VIEWFILES=customer.V,card.V
export NDRX_DMNLEV=5
export NDRX_DMNLOG=/enduro/tst1/tmp/NDRXD
export NDRX_APPHOME=/enduro/tst1
export NDRX_CLUSTERISED=0
export NDRX_CMDWAIT=1
export NDRX_CONFIG=/enduro/tst1/conf/ndrxconfig.xml
export NDRX_DEBUG_CONF=/enduro/tst1/conf/ndrxdebug.conf
export NDRX_DPID=/enduro/tst1/tmp/ndrxd.pid
export NDRX_DQMAX=3000
export NDRX_HOME=/opt/endurox
export NDRX_IPCKEY=442000
export NDRX_LDBAL=0
export NDRX_LEV=5
export NDRX_LOG=/enduro/tst1/tmp/XADMIN
export NDRX_MSGMAX=100
export NDRX_MSGSIZEMAX=32000
export NDRX_NODEID=1
export NDRX_QPATH=/dev/mqueue
export NDRX_QPREFIX=/tst1
export NDRX_RNDK=jaUZwOlTqglSc
export NDRX_SHMPATH=/dev/shm
export NDRX_SRVMAX=10000
export NDRX_SVCMAX=600
export NDRX_TOUT=60
export NDRX_UBFMAXFLDS=16000
export NDRX_ULOG=/enduro/tst1/logs

# XA 2PC SECTION, ORACLE DB
export ORACLE_SID=ROCKY
export ORACLE_HOME=/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/dbhome_1
export PATH=$PATH:ORACLE_HOME/bin
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:$ORACLE_HOME/lib
export NDRX_XA_RES_ID=1
export NDRX_XA_OPEN_STR="ORACLE_XA+SqlNet=ROCKY+ACC=P/endurotest/endurotest1+SesTM=180+LogDir=/tmp/xa+nolocal=f+Threads=true"
export NDRX_XA_CLOSE_STR=$NDRX_XA_OPEN_STR

# XA Static registration driver
export NDRX_XA_DRIVERLIB=$NDRX_HOME/lib/libndrxxaoras.so

# XA Dynamic registration driver
#export NDRX_XA_DRIVERLIB=$NDRX_HOME/lib/libndrxxaorad.so

export NDRX_XA_RMLIB=/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/dbhome_1/lib/libclntsh.so.11.1
export NDRX_XA_LAZY_INIT=1
# XA SECTION, END

---------------------------------------------------------------------

Common-config ini file sample configuration, assuming following settings in env:
---------------------------------------------------------------------
export NDRX_CCONFIG=/enduro/tst1/conf/app.ini
export NDRX_CCTAG=server1/RM2
---------------------------------------------------------------------

The configuration file might look like:

---------------------------------------------------------------------
#
# Common variables, inherited for CCTAGs
#
[@global]
FIELDTBLS=Exfields,fieldtab1.fd,fieldtab2.fd
FLDTBLDIR=/enduro/tst1/tuxfbuf
VIEWDIR=/enduro/tst1/views
VIEWFILES=customer.V,card.V
NDRX_DMNLEV=5
NDRX_DMNLOG=/enduro/tst1/tmp/NDRXD
NDRX_APPHOME=/enduro/tst1
NDRX_CLUSTERISED=0
NDRX_CMDWAIT=1
NDRX_DPID=/enduro/tst1/tmp/ndrxd.pid
NDRX_DQMAX=3000
NDRX_HOME=/opt/endurox
NDRX_IPCKEY=442000
NDRX_LDBAL=0
NDRX_LEV=5
NDRX_LOG=/enduro/tst1/tmp/XADMIN
NDRX_MSGMAX=100
NDRX_MSGSIZEMAX=32000
NDRX_NODEID=1
NDRX_QPATH=/dev/mqueue
NDRX_QPREFIX=/tst1
NDRX_RNDK=jaUZwOlTqglSc
NDRX_SHMPATH=/dev/shm
NDRX_SRVMAX=10000
NDRX_SVCMAX=600
NDRX_TOUT=60
NDRX_UBFMAXFLDS=16000
NDRX_ULOG=/enduro/tst1/logs

#
# CCTAG section server1
#
[@global/server1]
NDRX_CONFIG=/enduro/tst1/conf/ndrxconfig.xml

#
# CCTAG section RM2
#
[@global/RM2]
# XA 2PC SECTION, ORACLE DB
ORACLE_SID=ROCKY
ORACLE_HOME=/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/dbhome_1
PATH=$PATH:ORACLE_HOME/bin
LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:$ORACLE_HOME/lib
NDRX_XA_RES_ID=1
NDRX_XA_OPEN_STR="ORACLE_XA+SqlNet=ROCKY+ACC=P/endurotest/endurotest1+SesTM=180+LogDir=/tmp/xa+nolocal=f+Threads=true"
NDRX_XA_CLOSE_STR=$NDRX_XA_OPEN_STR
# XA Static registration driver
NDRX_XA_DRIVERLIB=$NDRX_HOME/lib/libndrxxaoras.so
# XA Dynamic registration driver
#NDRX_XA_DRIVERLIB=$NDRX_HOME/lib/libndrxxaorad.so
NDRX_XA_RMLIB=/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0/dbhome_1/lib/libclntsh.so.11.1
NDRX_XA_LAZY_INIT=1
# XA SECTION, END

#
# Debug section (no need for NDRX_DEBUG_CONF in CConfig case)
#
[@debug]
*= ndrx=0 ubf=0

[@debug/server1]
*= ndrx=5 ubf=0

---------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTES FOR ORACLE DB
-------------------
Note that *tmsrv* run with multiple threads. Flag '+Threads=true' MUST be set in
*NDRX_XA_OPEN_STR*. Otherwise unexpected core dumps can be received from *tmsrv*.

BUGS
----
Report bugs to support@mavimax.com

SEE ALSO
--------
*xadmin(8)*, *ndrxd(8)*, *ndrxconfig.xml(5)*, *ndrxdebug.conf(5)* *viewc(8)*

COPYING
-------
(C) Mavimax, Ltd.
