doc/manpage/tmsrv.adoc, before:

TMSRV(8)
========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
tmsrv - Transaction Manager Server.


SYNOPSIS
--------
*tmsrv* ['OPTIONS']


DESCRIPTION
-----------
This is special ATMI server which is used for distributed transaction coordination.
For new transactions started with 'tpbegin()', 'tmsrv' generates new XID and passed
it back to transaction initiator. At the same time transaction is remembered by 'tmsrv'
as active transaction and time-out counter is checked by background thread.

In Enduro/X XA Resource Managers are numeric identifiers, which are allowed to
be in range of 1..32. Enduro/X's Resource Manager ID (RMID) is same identifier as 
Group Number or grpno known in other ATMI systems.

If during distributed transaction processing new resource manager is associated
with transaction, then process notifies initial transaction manager that new
association must be made. In active phase this too is stored in process memory.

When transaction comes to commit() phase, then it is logged to disk. Every 
transaction is logged to seperate file.  File name contains resource manager ID and 
transaction XID. During the prepare phase status of every Resource Manager is logged.
The same is with commit phase. Once all resources are
completed, transaction file is removed. If 'tmsrv' crashed for in-progress transaction,
then transaction files are read from disk, and appropriate actions according to 
state machine are performed (aborted or rolled back).

If running transaction did time-out, then background thread will abort it automatically,
and for caller process commit() will fail with abort-only message.

In cluster environment, other transaction manager of corresponding resource managers
are involved for prepare/abort/commit actions. Also as every service doing as part
of single transaction, must have a cluster link to initial transaction manager (for
registration purposes). Thus means that all involved nodes, must have direct cluster
visibility, otherwise transactions will fail.

Transaction managers can be load balanced with 'ndrxconfig.xml' with min/max attributes.
In load balance manner at tpbegin() corresponding free transaction manager will be
selected. Later at transaction process this manager is responsible for full cycle
of the transaction. Other resource managers for this transaction will help for 
prepare/commit/aborts of other RMs. These other TMs will be selected in load balanced
mode.

Every instance of 'tmsrv' will advertise following list of services

1. @TM-<Resource Manager ID>
2. @TM-<Cluster Node ID>-<Resource Manager ID>
3. @TM-<Cluster Node ID>-<Resource Manager ID>-<EnduroX Server ID>

For example for Resource Manager ID '1', Cluster Node ID '6', Enduro/X Server ID '10'
services will look like:

1. @TM-1
2. @TM-6-1
3. @TM-6-1-10

Currently 1. format is used for starting the transaction, and accepting prepare/commit/abort
calls from master TM of the transaction. Service Nr 3. is used by transaction initiator for
subsequent calls of the 'tpcommit()'/'tpabort()'. Also 3. is used by services involved in transaction
to register new Resource Manager ID as part of the transaction.

For XA processing, resource manager drivers are loaded via dynamic loadable shared libs.
Resource manager should expose 'xa_switch' in shared lib. For every different resource manager,
there is different Enduro/X server running. Enduro/X process gets associated with
corresponding RMDI via 'NDRX_XA_RES_ID' environment variable.

To configure different RMID's for different processes or 'tmsrvs'. Use the Enduro/X build in
facility of environment variable override. See the manpage of 'ex_env(5)'.

Enduro/X support static and dynamic XA registration.

OPTIONS
-------
*-t* 'DEFAULT_TIMEOUT'::
'DEFAULT_TIMEOUT' default transaction time-out in seconds.

*-l* 'LOG_DIR'::
'LOG_DIR' is full path to transaction log file directory. Process at startup
scans the directory for transaction files. The format of the file name
is following: 'TRN-<Cluster Node ID>-<RMID>-<Server ID>'. To move transaction
to different transaction manager. The log file should be renamed accordingly.

[*-s* 'SCAN_TIME']::
Time in seconds for one cycle to perform transaction actions for background thread.
I.e. the background thread does the sleep of this time on every loop. Default is set to '10'.

[*-c* 'TIME_OUT_CHECK']::
This is periodic timer for doing active transactions time-out checks. Default is set to '1'

[*-m* 'MAX_TRIES']::
Max tries to complete the transactions by background thread. If the counter is reached,
then no more attempts to complete the transaction are done. The counter is restarted at
'tmsrv' reboot. Default is set to '100'.

[*-p* 'THREAD_POOL_SIZE']::
This is the number of threads processing incoming requsts. If all threads are busy, then
job is internally queued. It is known that some databases slowly process some of 
the XA operations, for example 'xa_rollback'. Thus multiple threads can handle this
more efficiently. Default threadpool size is set to 10. For more load balacing it
is recommended to start multiple 'tmsrv' processes for same RMID.


EXIT STATUS
-----------
*0*::
Success

*1*::
Failure

BUGS
----
Report bugs to madars.vitolins@gmail.com

SEE ALSO
--------
*ex_env(5)*

AUTHOR
------
Enduro/X is created by Madars Vitolins.


COPYING
-------
(C) Mavimax, Ltd

Commit message:

Fixed Bug #133 but needs more unit testing...

doc/manpage/tmsrv.adoc, after:

TMSRV(8)
========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
tmsrv - Transaction Manager Server.


SYNOPSIS
--------
*tmsrv* ['OPTIONS']


DESCRIPTION
-----------
This is special ATMI server which is used for distributed transaction coordination.
For new transactions started with 'tpbegin()', 'tmsrv' generates new XID and passed
it back to transaction initiator. At the same time transaction is remembered by 'tmsrv'
as active transaction and time-out counter is checked by background thread.

In Enduro/X XA Resource Managers are numeric identifiers, which are allowed to
be in range of 1..32. Enduro/X's Resource Manager ID (RMID) is same identifier as 
Group Number or grpno known in other ATMI systems.

If during distributed transaction processing new resource manager is associated
with transaction, then process notifies initial transaction manager that new
association must be made. In active phase this too is stored in process memory.

When transaction comes to commit() phase, then it is logged to disk. Every 
transaction is logged to seperate file.  File name contains resource manager ID and 
transaction XID. During the prepare phase status of every Resource Manager is logged.
The same is with commit phase. Once all resources are
completed, transaction file is removed. If 'tmsrv' crashed for in-progress transaction,
then transaction files are read from disk, and appropriate actions according to 
state machine are performed (aborted or rolled back).

If running transaction did time-out, then background thread will abort it automatically,
and for caller process commit() will fail with abort-only message.

In cluster environment, other transaction manager of corresponding resource managers
are involved for prepare/abort/commit actions. Also as every service doing as part
of single transaction, must have a cluster link to initial transaction manager (for
registration purposes). Thus means that all involved nodes, must have direct cluster
visibility, otherwise transactions will fail.

Transaction managers can be load balanced with 'ndrxconfig.xml' with min/max attributes.
In load balance manner at tpbegin() corresponding free transaction manager will be
selected. Later at transaction process this manager is responsible for full cycle
of the transaction. Other resource managers for this transaction will help for 
prepare/commit/aborts of other RMs. These other TMs will be selected in load balanced
mode.

Every instance of 'tmsrv' will advertise following list of services

1. @TM-<Resource Manager ID>

2. @TM-<Cluster Node ID>-<Resource Manager ID>

3. @TM-<Cluster Node ID>-<Resource Manager ID>-<EnduroX Server ID>

For example for Resource Manager ID '1', Cluster Node ID '6', Enduro/X Server ID '10'
services will look like:

1. @TM-1

2. @TM-6-1

3. @TM-6-1-10

Currently 1. format is used for starting the transaction, and accepting prepare/commit/abort
calls from master TM of the transaction. Service Nr 3. is used by transaction initiator for
subsequent calls of the 'tpcommit()'/'tpabort()'. Also 3. is used by services involved in transaction
to register new Resource Manager ID as part of the transaction.

For XA processing, resource manager drivers are loaded via dynamic loadable shared libs.
Resource manager should expose 'xa_switch' in shared lib. For every different resource manager,
there is different Enduro/X server running. Enduro/X process gets associated with
corresponding RMDI via 'NDRX_XA_RES_ID' environment variable.

To configure different RMID's for different processes or 'tmsrvs'. Use the Enduro/X build in
facility of environment variable override. See the manpage of 'ex_env(5)'.

Enduro/X support static and dynamic XA registration.

OPTIONS
-------
*-t* 'DEFAULT_TIMEOUT'::
'DEFAULT_TIMEOUT' default transaction time-out in seconds.

*-l* 'LOG_DIR'::
'LOG_DIR' is full path to transaction log file directory. Process at startup
scans the directory for transaction files. The format of the file name
is following: 'TRN-<Cluster Node ID>-<RMID>-<Server ID>'. To move transaction
to different transaction manager. The log file should be renamed accordingly.

[*-s* 'SCAN_TIME']::
Time in seconds for one cycle to perform transaction actions for background thread.
I.e. the background thread does the sleep of this time on every loop. Default is set to '10'.

[*-c* 'TIME_OUT_CHECK']::
This is periodic timer for doing active transactions time-out checks. Default is set to '1'

[*-m* 'MAX_TRIES']::
Max tries to complete whole transaction by background thread. If the counter is reached,
then no more attempts to complete the transaction are done. The counter is restarted at
'tmsrv' reboot. Default is set to '100'.

[*-r* 'XA_RETRIES']::
This is number of attempts on resource manager when it returns *XA_RETRY* during
the commit. So lets say we have issued *tpcommit()* and some involved database
is returning *XA_RETRY*. If '-r' is set above 2, then during the processing
of 'tpcommit()', the xa commit to database will be retries one more time. If
DB returns any other error than *XA_RETRY* or succeeds, the transaction is proceeded.
If retry is returned again, then *TPEHAZARD* is returned to caller, transaction
is moved to background thread, and will by processed by '-m' tries. But also here
every '-m' try for *XA_RETRY* will be multiplied by '-r' attempts.
Default value is seto to '3'. 

[*-p* 'THREAD_POOL_SIZE']::
This is the number of threads processing incoming requsts. If all threads are busy, then
job is internally queued. It is known that some databases slowly process some of 
the XA operations, for example 'xa_rollback'. Thus multiple threads can handle this
more efficiently. Default threadpool size is set to 10. For more load balacing it
is recommended to start multiple 'tmsrv' processes for same RMID.


EXIT STATUS
-----------
*0*::
Success

*1*::
Failure

BUGS
----
Report bugs to madars.vitolins@gmail.com

SEE ALSO
--------
*ex_env(5)*

AUTHOR
------
Enduro/X is created by Madars Vitolins.


COPYING
-------
(C) Mavimax, Ltd
