doc/manpage/tpbridge.adoc, before:

TPBRIDGE(8)
===========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
tpbridge - EnduroX Bridge Server.


SYNOPSIS
--------
*tpbridge* ['OPTIONS']


DESCRIPTION
-----------
This is special ATMI server which is used to connect local ATMI instances
over the network. The result is network joined instances which makes
EnduroX cluster.

Bridge process is used to exchange service lists between two nodes,
calculate monotonic clock diff (so that later for messages time can
be adjusted) between nodes.

To establish network connection, on one machine it must be in passive mode
and on other machine it must be in active mode. Active 'tpbridge' periodically
tries to connect to the other machine. To one passive bridge only one
connection can be made.

If connection is dropped, active node will re-try to connect.

All data messages are prefixed with two byte message length indicator.
Meaning that the logical message can be split over the multiple packets or
within one packed can be carried multiple logical messages - 'tpbridge' will
solve that.

When connection is estableshed, clock diff and service lists are exchanged,
then 'bridge' is used to serve ATMI actions over the machines. I.e. 'tpcall()',
'tpforward()', conversations, etc.

When connection is stopped. This is reported to 'ndrxd' daemon which
removes services from shared memory accordingly.

tpbridge supports two network message formats. First format is native format
which sends over the network directly internetal (C lang) structures. This format
will work faster, but cannot be used between different type of computers.
I.e. in this case it is not possible to mix for example x86_64 with x86. Or
x86 with RISC/ARM 32bit.
If mixing is necessary, then use EnduroX Network Protocol option, activated by
flag '-f' on both nodes. In this case standard common TLV data format is used
for data exchange between nodes. This might be slower than native format.

tpbridge supports traffic encryption & signing by GNU PGP keys. In this case
for Enduro/X user keys must be setup and exchanged with receipient. Bridge
process needs to know sender (for signing) and recipient (for encryption) references.

OPTIONS
-------
*-n* 'NODE_ID'::
Other EnduroX instance's Node ID. Numerical 1..32.

[*-r*]::
Send Refresh messages to other node. If not set, other node will
not see our's node's services. OPTIONAL flag.

*-t* 'MODE'::
'MODE' can be 'P' for passive/TCPIP server mode, any other (e.g. 'A')
will be client mode.

*-i* 'IP_ADDRESS'::
In Active mode it is IP address to connect to. In passive mode it is
binding/listen address.

*-p* 'PORT_NUMBER'::
In active mode 'PORT_NUMBER' is port to connect to. In passive mode it is
port on which to listen for connection.

*-T* 'TIME_OUT_SEC'::
Parameter indicates time-out value for packet receive in seconds. This is
socket option. Receive is initiate when it either there is poll even on socket
or incomplete logical message is received and then next 'recv()' is called.
If the message part is not received in time, then socket is closed and connection
is restarted.

[*-b* 'BACKLOG_NR']::
Number of backlog entries. This is server's (passive mode) connection queue, before
server accepts connection. OPTIONAL parameter. Default value is 100. But
could be set to something like 5.

[*-c* 'CONNECTION_CHECK_SEC']::
Connection check interval in seconds. OPTIONAL parameter. Default value 5.

[*-z* 'PERIODIC_ZERO_SEND_SEC']::
Interval in seconds between which zero length message is wrote to socket.
This is useful to keep the connection option over the firewalls, etc.
OPTIONAL parameter. Default value 0 (Do not send).

[*-f*]::
Use 'EnduroX Standard Network TLV Protocol' instead of native data structures
for sending data over the network. This also ensure some backwards compatiblity
between EnduroX versions. But cases for backwards compatility must be checked
individually.

[*-g* 'PGP_RECIPIENT']::
This is recipients reference code for GNU PGP message encryption.

[*-s* 'PGP_SIGNER']::
Signer reference for GNU PGP scheme. Signer works if '-g' is enabled.
'-s' is optional.

EXIT STATUS
-----------
*0*::
Success

*1*::
Failure

BUGS
----
Report bugs to madars.vitolins@gmail.com

SEE ALSO
--------
*xadmin(8)*

AUTHOR
------
EnduroX is created by Madars Vitolins.


COPYING
-------
(C) Madars Vitolins

Commit message:

Works on bridge muli-threading, but looks like we need some major re-work with conversational messages at client end. Currently use -P 0 for bridge otherewise conversationl messages will fail

doc/manpage/tpbridge.adoc, after:

TPBRIDGE(8)
===========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
tpbridge - EnduroX Bridge Server.


SYNOPSIS
--------
*tpbridge* ['OPTIONS']


DESCRIPTION
-----------
This is special ATMI server which is used to connect local ATMI instances
over the network. The result is network joined instances which makes
EnduroX cluster.

Bridge process is used to exchange service lists between two nodes,
calculate monotonic clock diff (so that later for messages time can
be adjusted) between nodes.

To establish network connection, on one machine it must be in passive mode
and on other machine it must be in active mode. Active 'tpbridge' periodically
tries to connect to the other machine. To one passive bridge only one
connection can be made.

If connection is dropped, active node will re-try to connect.

All data messages are prefixed with two byte message length indicator.
Meaning that the logical message can be split over the multiple packets or
within one packed can be carried multiple logical messages - 'tpbridge' will
solve that.

When connection is estableshed, clock diff and service lists are exchanged,
then 'bridge' is used to serve ATMI actions over the machines. I.e. 'tpcall()',
'tpforward()', conversations, etc.

When connection is stopped. This is reported to 'ndrxd' daemon which
removes services from shared memory accordingly.

tpbridge supports two network message formats. First format is native format
which sends over the network directly internetal (C lang) structures. This format
will work faster, but cannot be used between different type of computers.
I.e. in this case it is not possible to mix for example x86_64 with x86. Or
x86 with RISC/ARM 32bit.
If mixing is necessary, then use EnduroX Network Protocol option, activated by
flag '-f' on both nodes. In this case standard common TLV data format is used
for data exchange between nodes. This might be slower than native format.

tpbridge supports traffic encryption & signing by GNU PGP keys. In this case
for Enduro/X user keys must be setup and exchanged with receipient. Bridge
process needs to know sender (for signing) and recipient (for encryption) references.

OPTIONS
-------
*-n* 'NODE_ID'::
Other EnduroX instance's Node ID. Numerical 1..32.

[*-r*]::
Send Refresh messages to other node. If not set, other node will
not see our's node's services. OPTIONAL flag.

*-t* 'MODE'::
'MODE' can be 'P' for passive/TCPIP server mode, any other (e.g. 'A')
will be client mode.

*-i* 'IP_ADDRESS'::
In Active mode it is IP address to connect to. In passive mode it is
binding/listen address.

*-p* 'PORT_NUMBER'::
In active mode 'PORT_NUMBER' is port to connect to. In passive mode it is
port on which to listen for connection.

*-T* 'TIME_OUT_SEC'::
Parameter indicates time-out value for packet receive in seconds. This is
socket option. Receive is initiate when it either there is poll even on socket
or incomplete logical message is received and then next 'recv()' is called.
If the message part is not received in time, then socket is closed and connection
is restarted.

[*-b* 'BACKLOG_NR']::
Number of backlog entries. This is server's (passive mode) connection queue, before
server accepts connection. OPTIONAL parameter. Default value is 100. But
could be set to something like 5.

[*-c* 'CONNECTION_CHECK_SEC']::
Connection check interval in seconds. OPTIONAL parameter. Default value 5.

[*-z* 'PERIODIC_ZERO_SEND_SEC']::
Interval in seconds between which zero length message is wrote to socket.
This is useful to keep the connection option over the firewalls, etc.
OPTIONAL parameter. Default value 0 (Do not send).

[*-f*]::
Use 'EnduroX Standard Network TLV Protocol' instead of native data structures
for sending data over the network. This also ensure some backwards compatiblity
between EnduroX versions. But cases for backwards compatility must be checked
individually.

[*-g* 'PGP_RECIPIENT']::
This is recipients reference code for GNU PGP message encryption.

[*-s* 'PGP_SIGNER']::
Signer reference for GNU PGP scheme. Signer works if '-g' is enabled.
'-s' is optional.

[*-P* 'THREAD_POOL_SIZE']::
This is number of worker threads for sending and receiving messages
for/to network. The default size is 5. If set to 0, then multi-threading
is disabled and all work is done by main XATMI server thread.

[*-C* 'CONVERSATIONAL_THREAD_POOLS']::
Number of thread pools used for conversational messaging. As for conversational
the order of messages are significan, the messages are modulated by call descriptor
and passed to conversational threads. Thus any single conversation will
go to only on thread. The default size is 5. If not set, then value is taken
from *-P*. If *-P* is 0 (disabled), then conversational thread pools are disabled
too.


EXIT STATUS
-----------
*0*::
Success

*1*::
Failure

BUGS
----
Report bugs to madars.vitolins@gmail.com

SEE ALSO
--------
*xadmin(8)*

AUTHOR
------
EnduroX is created by Madars Vitolins.


COPYING
-------
(C) Madars Vitolins
